3.0 - Model data information
================

The London Road NO2 pollution model data sets are the following files: **LR.NO2.rda** and **LR.NO2.direction.rda**. These can be found in the folder **3.0 - Model Data** along with the file used to create the data sets from the raw data: **create.model.data.rmd**. These data sets consist of the following 37/56 variables respectively:

#### Time and response variables

-   **DateTime** the start of a 15 minute interval.
-   **NO2** the nitrogen dioxide reading in ppb .
-   **NO** the nitrous oxide reading in ppb.
-   **NOx** total of NO2 and NO.

#### Weather predictors:

-   **temperature** the average temperature in degrees Celsius per 15 minute interval.
-   **pressure** the average pressure in hectopascals (hPa) per 15 minute interval.
-   **windDirectionDegrees** the average wind direction in compass degrees per 15 minute interval.
-   **windSpeed** the average wind speed in kilometres per hour per 15 minute interval.
-   **humidity** the average humidity percentage per 15 minute interval.
-   **hourlyPrecip** hourly precipitation in mm.

#### Traffic predictors:

-   **car** the number of cars passing through London Road during the 15 minute interval.
-   **truck** the number of trucks (HCVs).
-   **van** the number of vans (LCVs).
-   **bus** the number of buses (and other public service vehicles such as coaches and emergency vehicles).

**prefix:**

-   Each of the preceding vehicle types is prefixed with **d** or **p** denoting diesel or petrol fuel type respectively.

**suffix:**

-   For **LR.NO2** each of the preceding vehicle types is suffixed with **\_E4**, **\_E5** or **\_E6**. These denote the Euro emission standard, where E6 denotes Euro 6, E5 denotes Euro 5 and E4 denotes Euro 4 and E3 dentotes Euro 3 or worse.
-   For **LR.NO2.direction** the traffic predictors are suffixed with **e\_E4**, **e\_E4**, **e\_E5**, **e\_E6**, **w\_E4**, **w\_E5** & **w\_E6**, where **e** denotes traffic travelling easterly on London Road and **w** denotes traffic travelling westerly, and the Euro emission standard notation remains the same as before.

#### Average journey speeds:

-   **from\_i\_to\_j** is the average journey speed per 15 minute interval from ANPR site i to ANPR site j. For example, from\_14\_to\_15, is the average journey speed per 15 minute interval for vehicles travelling from the London Road ANPR site to the Warminster Road ANPR site.

These were calculated from the data set **obs.data** by the following method:

1.  For vehicles observed at more than one ANPR site, the journey time between the ANPR sites was calculated.
2.  Journey times greater than 30 minutes were filtered out and discarded.
3.  The data was then grouped by the ANPR site the vehicle started from **site\_from** and the destination ANPR site **site\_to**.
4.  The mode was taken of journey times rounded to the nearest minute per 15 minute interval.
5.  Journey times greater than 10 minutes from 15 minute mode were filtered out and discarded, to extract a cluster of journey times.
6.  The remaining journey times, were grouped by their starting times (the time at which they are first observed at an ANPR site) into 15 minute intervals and the mean per 15 minute interval was taken.
7.  Where some values were missing due to no vehicles observed during a 15 minute interval, the journey times were interpolated from the previously observed and the next observed value.
8.  Finally, the shortest road distances between the London Road ANPR cameras and the other ANPR sites were found manually using Google Maps and the average journey speeds were calculated.
